# Certificates 

For each course, the Manager is in charge of establishing the list of participants who will get a certificate of attendance or achievement. By default, any participant who followed more than half of the course or failed at the evaluation is entitled to receive a certificate of attendance (stating that the participant attended the course and no skill was assessed). This information is provided by the **#Trainer(s)** after the course took place and is reported by the Manager or the Admin into courseadmin by updating the **Reg. Status** to absent if the person did not show up or announced he/she was unable to join the training. 

Participants entitled for a certificate of achievement are the ones who passed the evaluation (the certificate mentions the number of hours of course, the passed exam and the recommended ECTS). As for the attendance, the information comes from the Trainer(s) and should be introduced into courseadmin (Exam to Passed or Failed). 

The Manager in courseadmin can easily export the list of registered participants by clicking onto the Select All button, and then clicking onto the XLS CUSTOM button. This will allow the Manager to choose which fields to export (**Firstname, Lastname, Email, Reg. Status, Exam**, …). This list can then be sent to the Admin who will take care of the certificates sending. 

Alternatively, the Manager can let the Admin know when the Exam field in courseadmin has been updated, so the Admin can then prepare the certificate and send them out to the participants. 

The certificates are generated and sent to participants automatically via courseadmin. Once the Manager gives the green light, the Admin goes to the course page on courseadmin and selects all the registered participants and then clicks on the green button “SEND CERTIFICATE”. This button becomes green when the course is over.  

The certificates are sent out to the participants generally a few days to a few weeks after the course took place depending on whether an exam was proposed, and the number of feedbacks received. As we do not send certificate of attendance to those who took and passed the exam, we wait until all exams have been collected and corrected before sending out certificates, which can explain the delay between the end of the course and the certificates delivery. The Manager also waits before sending the list to the Admin, based on the number of feedbacks received. 