# Manage payments 

Managing payments is usually an ongoing process from the moment the applicants are registered and notified that they need to pay to the last payment received. The entire process, which takes place via courseadmin , might take more or less time depending on how fast payments are made. It also very much depends on the number of cancellations received over the payment period. 

Once selected applicants are registered (see above [Register Participants](https://sib-training.gitlab.io/sib-training-cookbook/procedure/participants/register_participants/)), they should all have their **Reg. Status** to “registered”. The Manager also checks that those with the field Is academic = No, are indeed non-academic and that their **Reg. Fee** is the one for the for-profit organizations (conversely, check that **#Participant(s)** with non-academic email addresses have the status Is academic = No). If needed, the Manager can change update these fields by editing the corresponding registered Participant (entry(ies). 

The Manager then selects the registered participants either by filtering out on **Reg. Status** and clicking on the button Select All or by clicking on the desired entries. Once the lines are selected (highlighted in blue), he/she will proceed to the automatic sending of confirmation by clicking on the Create payment – send email. Once the mails have been sent out, the registered participants as well as the Manager receive the following email.   

**image of email to be added**

This email confirms the registration to the participants, includes the link to proceed to payment and propose to him/her two possible means of payment (credit card or internal transfer for some SIB member). It also includes the deadline for payment and the SIB Training general conditions.  The **Reg. Fee** in courseadmin is then updated from amount(na) to amount (PENDING). 

Once a payment has been accepted by the SIB system, the status changed to amount (Paid cc) or (Authorized cc) when it was done by cc or (Paid it) of it was by internal transfer. 

A week to 10 days after notifying participants that they are registered and need to pay, the Manager checks who has not paid by looking at the Reg . Fee values. If the status is still pending (amount(PENDING)), a payment reminder email is sent manually to those concerned (See [template](https://sibcloud-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/patricia_palagi_sib_swiss/EdjDcM1ff2ZCpeF-Tpw41bQBOvXAQfeCAcYmfO9d8N0Ujw?e=LHbB5s)). Another 5 to 7 days are given to proceed to payment (initially the participant has 5 days to pay). If by the 2nd deadline no payment has been made, the registered participant’s registration is changed to cancelled by selecting the line and changing the **Reg. Status** to cancelled for that entry. This is iterative and depends on when applicants were registered. It allows applicants on waiting list to be offered a seat.  

If someone asks to cancel before the deadline and before the payment has been made, the Manager or the Admin changes the **Reg. Status** to cancelled and confirms by email the cancellation to the participant. 
If someone asks to cancel before the deadline and after the payment has been made, the Manager or the Admin changes the **Reg. Status** to cancelled and he Admin asks the finances dept (after the course has happened) to refund the participant for the fees already paid.  He/she also lets the participant know by email about the cancellation procedure and refund. 
If someone asks to cancel after the deadline and after the payment has been made, the Manager or the Admin changes the **Reg. Status** to cancelled and based on the waiting list and time left to the start of the course, decided to refund or not the participant. It will mainly depend on whether it was possible to allocate the place to another applicant. He/she also lets the participant know by email about the cancellation procedure and possible refund. 